p{color:red}. *rope* is still under early development.  Check it out if you wish to follow my progress or help, but do not use it in your applications (yet!).

*rope* is a pure Ruby implementation of the "Rope data structure":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rope_%28computer_science%29.

For many applications, the *Rope* class can be a drop-in replacement for *String* that is optimized for certain use cases.

Using a *Rope* instance over a *String* may be desirable in applications that manipulate large amounts of text.

*rope* currently offers:
* Fast string concatenation and substring operations involving large strings
* Immutability, which is desirable for functional programming techniques or multithreaded applications

Planned features for *rope*:
* Ability to view a function producing characters as a Rope (including I/O operations).  For instance, a piece of a Rope may be a 100MB file, but is only read when that section of the string is examined.  Concatenating to the end of that Rope does not involve reading the entire file.
* Implement a *Rope* counterpart to every immutable method available on the *String* class.

Disadvantages of *rope*:
* Single character replacements are expensive
* Iterating character-by-character is slightly more expensive than in a String (TODO: how much? .. haven't implemented iterators yet)

h1. Installation

*rope* is hosted on "rubygems":http://www.rubygems.org/

<pre>
gem install rope
</pre>

... or in your Gemfile

<pre>
gem 'rope'
</pre>

*rope* is tested against MRI 1.8.7 and 1.9.2.

h1. Usage

h2. Creating a Rope

<pre>
rope = "123456789".to_rope # Rope::Rope.new("123456789") also works

puts rope # "123456789"
</pre>

h2. Concatenation

A *Rope* instance can be concatenated with another *Rope* or *String* instance.

<pre>
rope = "12345"
string = "6789"

rope += string
puts rope # "123456789"
</pre>

h2. Slices/Substrings

A *Rope* instance offers efficient substring operations.  The *slice* and *[]* methods are synonymous with their "String counterparts (Ruby API documentation)":http://ruby-doc.org/core-1.9/classes/String.html#M000293.

<pre>
rope = "123456789".to_rope

puts rope.slice(3, 4) # 4567
puts rope.slice(-6, 4) # 4567
# TODO: More examples when they are implemented
</pre>

h3. Mutation

A *Rope* instance reponds to []= similar to *String*. Mutations to the Rope do not modify the underlying *String* fragments that constitute the Rope.

<pre>
rope = "123456".to_rope
rope[1,2] = "foo"
puts rope # 1foo456
</pre>